README.md, before:

<div align=center>
<img width=500 src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SwirlLang/branding/main/logos/wordmark-logo-transparent.png">

# Swirl Programming Language
A high level, statically typed, compiled programming language.

[Website](https://swirl-lang.vercel.app) |
[Docs](https://swirl-lang.vercel.app/docs) |
[Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md)  

[![vscode extension](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/v/MrinmoyHaloi.swirl-lang-support?color=blue&label=VSCode%20Extension&logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=blue&style=flat-square)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MrinmoyHaloi.swirl-lang-support)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/SwirlLang/Swirl?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)
[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/SwirlLang/Swirl/cmake.yml?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/SwirlLang/Swirl/actions/workflows/cmake.yml)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/894989427628179477?color=blue&label=Discord&logo=Discord&logoColor=white&style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/RSJ5TUDdqx)

</div>
<div align="center">
The ambition of Swirl is to be a modern programming language combining and its own ideas and the best features and practices 
 of beloved programming languages in a unique way.
</div>


## Getting Started
You can find installation instructions in the [docs](https://swirl-lang.vercel.app/docs/getting-started/installation).

Once you have Swirl installed, simply open a terminal and create a file named hello.sw with a simple hello world program: 
```
print("Hello World")
```

To run the program, save your code and use the swirl compiler to compile and run the program.
```bash
swirl hello.sw --run
```
Here the --run flag compiles and runs the program in a single command.

## Contributing to Swirl
We welcome contributions to Swirl! If you have an idea for a new feature or have found a bug, please open an issue in the project repository. To contribute code to Swirl, fork the repository, create a new branch, and submit a pull request. Read the [Docs](https://swirl-lang.vercel.app/docs/) for more info.

## Issues and feature request

If you want to request a new feature or report a bug, you can use the GitHub issues tracker. We will do our best to respond as quickly.

Commit message:

docs(README): remove getting started

README.md, after:

<div align=center>
<img width=500 src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SwirlLang/branding/main/logos/wordmark-logo-transparent.png">

# Swirl Programming Language
A high level, statically typed, compiled programming language.

[Website](https://swirl-lang.vercel.app) |
[Docs](https://swirl-lang.vercel.app/docs) |
[Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md)  

[![vscode extension](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/v/MrinmoyHaloi.swirl-lang-support?color=blue&label=VSCode%20Extension&logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=blue&style=flat-square)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MrinmoyHaloi.swirl-lang-support)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/SwirlLang/Swirl?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)
[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/SwirlLang/Swirl/cmake.yml?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/SwirlLang/Swirl/actions/workflows/cmake.yml)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/894989427628179477?color=blue&label=Discord&logo=Discord&logoColor=white&style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/RSJ5TUDdqx)

</div>
<div align="center">
The ambition of Swirl is to be a modern programming language combining and its own ideas and the best features and practices of beloved programming languages in a unique way.

To get a general idea, take a look at the [scaffold](https://github.com/SwirlLang/Swirl/blob/main/scaffold.md).
</div>


<!-- ## Getting Started
You can find installation instructions in the [docs](https://swirl-lang.vercel.app/docs/getting-started/installation).

Once you have Swirl installed, create a file named hello.sw with a simple hello world program:  
```c
print("Hello World")
```

To run the program, use the swirl compiler to compile and run the program.
```shell
swirl hello.sw && ./hello
``` -->

## Contributing to Swirl
We welcome contributions to Swirl! To start contributing to Swirl, fork the repository, create a new branch, make the changes, and submit a pull request. Read the [Docs](https://swirl-lang.vercel.app/docs/) for more info.

## Issues and feature request

If you want to request a new feature or report a bug, you can use the GitHub issues tracker. We will do our best to respond as quickly.
